---
title: "Whats Next"
description: "general updates and future projects :)" 
date: 2024-05-22T09:31:43-04:00
#image: 
categories: ["General"]
tags: []
license: GNU General Public License v3.0 
hidden: false
toc: true
draft: false
---

Alot has happened in the past three months. Its not entirely uncommon for me to drop off the face of the earth during finals, but this year it hit me hard. I had quite a large class load, and getting everything in and done was quite a challenge. Now the semesters over, and ive graduated! For the past month or so, ive had the chance to actually breath. 

So far, ive done primarily house chores in my free time. I took down the old pool in the backyard, fixed the fence up for the most part, and rebuilt the garden bed. I have also gone through and planted quite a few plants. Currently ive got as follows:

- 3 tomato plants.
- 3 jalapeno plants.
- 2 habanero pepper plants.
- 5 garlic plants
- numerous green onions scattered in the back of the garden bed
- 2 lettuce plants.

My biggest challenge this season will be protecting the plants and the fruits they bear from the neighbors chicken. The chicken, is adorable, but it enjoys the freedom a free cage bird should and discovers the neighbors houses. My fear, is it will eat my prized tomatoes, and im not sure what my plan is for that so far, but if anything ill have to put chicken wire on the perimeter of the garden bed. The only challenge is that it might keep not only the chicken out, but me as well (im lazy and navigating a chicken fence around the garden bed, could be detrimental). 

Now that I feel as though i have taken a good break and am feeling quite a bit better, I have a few plans for this website and the things id like to do. Starting with, getting comments back up and running.

## Comments Planned updates

Right off the bat, id like to get comments up and running again, but before doing so, id like to get a management console up and running. Theres a few reasons i want to get the management console, up. One is because i sometimes dread remoting into the server, and two, I dread running sql commands in fear of fucking up terribly.

Some management console objectives are as follows

- Secure Authentication.
- Search comments by all values / fields.
- Manage visibility of comments.
- Delete comments.
- Block IP Addresses.

Now this reasonably expands the database quite a bit, meaning ill need a few new tables now. As it stands, ill need a administrators table as well as a blocked_addresses table. I currently dont have a timeline for this project so im not sure how long it will take, but these are the changes needed to the software before im willing to bring it back online.

## hugo_cms

The other side of this that im looking to do is implement a homebrewed CMS to the blog. I think it will be simple enough to do, but all im really looking to do with this application is as follows,

- Create/Manage Articles
- Create/Manage ArchTypes

thats really it. 

Thanks for reading ! :) 

